Title/Paragraph,Content
Title,Tan Tock Seng
Paragraph,"Due to scheduled maintenance, you may experience intermittent access from 1 Nov, 10pm to 2 Nov, 6am. We apologise for the inconvenience."
Paragraph,"Some services, including catalogue searches and reservations of physical items, will be unavailable from 10 Nov, Fri, 10pm to 12 Nov 2023, Sun, as we change our library system. We apologise for any inconvenience caused."
Paragraph,"The National Archives of Singapore Building will be closed on 12 Nov 2023 (Sun), 9am to 5pm, for the Annual Electrical Shutdown exercise. Thank you for your understanding."
Paragraph,"Find books, journals, magazines, CDs or DVDs."
Paragraph,"Search through the databases of various libraries and archives, including our partners'."
Paragraph,"Discover more from various databases including EBSCO, EIU, JStor and others."
Paragraph,"Discover topics on Singapore, Arts, Business and more."
Paragraph,Dedicated resources on various topics for those aged 50 and above.
Paragraph,Newly-added to our collections.
Paragraph,Recent eBook titles added to our collections.
Paragraph,"Search and access archived photographs, maps, plans, official & private records, oral history & audio-visual recordings."
Paragraph,"Check out National Library's digitised collections of heritage books, manuscripts, music, photographs, newspapers & more."
Paragraph,
Paragraph,"The NLB Mobile app is your personal library, anywhere, anytime."
Paragraph,"Search and access archived photographs, maps, plans, official & private records, oral history & more."
Paragraph,"Check out National Library's digitised collections of heritage books, manuscripts, music, photographs, newspapers & more."
Paragraph,"Quarterly publication featuring articles on history, culture and heritage of Singapore within the larger Asian context."
Paragraph,Read the latest stories and fun facts from our shelves.
Paragraph,"Learn about Singapore's buildings, places and spaces, and the stories behind them."
Paragraph,"Explore over 7,500 geo-referenced maps from our collections."
Paragraph,The best of Singapore books suitable for children and teens. Uncover narratives about Singapore both imagined and real!
Paragraph,Discover learning materials from Video Learning Portal.
Paragraph,Navigate the shift of growth opportunities to Asia with curated resources and programmes.
Paragraph,Find and join a Learning Community.
Paragraph,"Begin your learning journey by making use of our curated content, learning pathways and communities."
Paragraph,Learn info-literacy skills to assess reliability of information using Source Understand Research and Evaluate framework.
Paragraph,The National Reading Movement aims to nurture a vibrant reading culture in Singapore amongst adults and seniors.
Paragraph,"Resources for children, teens, families and educators in reading and learning."
Paragraph,"A platform where you can choose what, when and how you learn. Customise your learning journey with resources across a wide range of topics."
Paragraph,"Custodians of Singapore’s collective memory, ranging from Government files, photographs, audio-visual recordings and more."
Paragraph,"Singapore's national library with the largest public reference collection covering social sciences, local works and more."
Paragraph,Pursue lifelong learning and discovery through our network of public libraries located conveniently across Singapore.
Paragraph,Premier resource provider for works about Singapore and the region for local and overseas researchers and academics.
Paragraph,Offers working adults a diverse collection for professional development.
Paragraph,An overview of all our libraries and institutions island-wide.
Paragraph,"The NLB Mobile app is your personal library, anywhere, anytime."
Paragraph,"From corporate events to music performances, we provide venues equipped for all kinds of functions."
Paragraph,"Make a reservation for Project Rooms, Music Facilities, Screening Rooms and Event Venues."
Paragraph,Learn how to use our libraries for a great learning experience.
Paragraph,"Check your loans and reservations, and access other account services."
Paragraph,"Free access to NLB eResources such as eDatabases, eBooks and eMagazines."
Paragraph,Overview about National Archives of Singapore.
Paragraph,"Restored by the National Archives of Singapore, it currently houses a permanent World War II exhibition on the war and its legacies."
Paragraph,"Search and access archived photographs, maps, plans, official & private records, oral history & more."
Paragraph,Overview about National Library Singapore.
Paragraph,"Singapore's national library with the largest public reference collection covering social sciences, local works and more."
Paragraph,Premier resource provider for works about Singapore and the region for local and overseas researchers and academics.
Paragraph,Discover our rich collections with a wide range of resources in various subjects and formats.
Paragraph,Check out our suite of services to assist your research.
Paragraph,"Read about the facilities at the National Library, Singapore."
Paragraph,Check out our network of public libraries across Singapore.
Paragraph,All the details you need to know about borrowing and reservations.
Paragraph,Mobile library bus operated by NLB to reach out to young children and promote reading and lifelong learning.
Paragraph,Check out NLB’s Grab-n-Go libraries in public spaces.
Paragraph,Discover new experiences outside of libraries.
Paragraph,Work with us to transform NLB into a national platform of lifelong learning.
Paragraph,Partner us to nurture thoughtful people who reflect deeply on information they access everyday.
Paragraph,"Join us in inspiring discovery, creating Singapore stories and instilling appreciation of our collective experience."
Paragraph,"Help us bridge gaps, include more and empower all in this digital age."
Paragraph,Join us to make our libraries and archives happy places.
Paragraph,Strike a balance between business objectives and making a positive impact on your community.
Paragraph,
Paragraph,Join us to make an impact in the lives of less privileged children through reading.
Paragraph,We welcome donations that contribute to the preservation of Singapore’s documentary heritage. Find out more here.
Paragraph,Read about some of our donors and their donations.
Paragraph,We are grateful to all who have donated and enriched our collections.
Paragraph,"Do you have a question regarding donations, or how donated materials are made accessible? Check out our FAQs here."
Paragraph,
Paragraph,"Everyone deserves to experience the joys of reading, learning and discovering. Help us make library and archives services more inclusive."
Paragraph,Calling for your support.
Paragraph,Donations that made a difference.
Paragraph,"Help us describe photos, transcribe documents, annotate eBook or submit your personal memory about Singapore."
Paragraph,Explore our datasets or leverage our suite of APIs to create or integrate with your app.
Paragraph,An overview about Singapore’s National Library Board (NLB).
Paragraph,Learn about NLB's principles and guidelines in building a useful and evolving collection.
Paragraph,Understand NLB's role and statutory functions.
Paragraph,Find out about NLB's initiatives to serve everyone's reading and learning needs.
Paragraph,"Discover our LAB25, a blueprint to transform libraries and archives of the future."
Paragraph,National Library Board Annual Report 2022 / 2023 Innovations Through Partnerships
Paragraph,Overview about Institutions and Subsidaries.
Paragraph,"Custodian of Singapore's collective memory, ranging from government files, private memoirs, historical maps and more."
Paragraph,"Singapore's national library with the largest public reference collection covering social sciences, local works and more."
Paragraph,Our Board charts NLB’s strategic direction.
Paragraph,
Paragraph,
Paragraph,Our Management Team guides NLB to achieve our vision and mission.
Paragraph,View our Organisation Chart.
Paragraph,"Find our latest media releases, speeches, annual reports and corporate publications here."
Paragraph,Check out our latest updates.
Paragraph,Read the key speeches given by our leaders and other stakeholders.
Paragraph,View our current and past annual reports.
Paragraph,Get an at-a-glance summary of our work and the impact we have made.
Paragraph,Access our in-depth resources on areas of interest.
Paragraph,Browse NLB’s publications across a wide variety of topics.
Paragraph,"This evocative collection of more than 150 picture postcards offers insight into Japanese society in Singapore in the late 19th and early 20th centuries from the Lim Shao Bin Collection in the National Library, Singapore."
Paragraph,Overview about careers at National Library Board Singapore.
Paragraph,Explore a career with the libraries and archives.
Paragraph,"Find out more about our scholarship, requirements and application period."
Paragraph,Apply for our Research Fellowships or Creative Residency.
Paragraph,Ever wondered what librarians do? Find out what makes our librarians tick as they share highlights of their work from the collections at the Library.
Paragraph,An overview of National Library Board's international engagements.
Paragraph,Find out who our partners are.
Paragraph,Learn more about the latest developments of libraries and archives from top leaders around the world.
Paragraph,"Find out how we support IFLA, the international organisation for libraries."
Paragraph,Share
Paragraph,"Tan Tock Seng (b. 1798, Malacca, Malaysia–d. 24 February 1850, Singapore)1 was an entrepreneur and philanthropist of Hokkien descent.2 Tan started out as a humble vegetable seller and rose to become one of Singapore’s most eminent philanthropists and a leader of the Chinese community.3 He was the first Asian to be appointed Justice of the Peace.4 In 1844, he helped set up a hospital for the poor that now bears his name.5"
Paragraph,"Early life Tan was born in Malacca in 1798, the third son of an immigrant from Fujian province, China, and a local Peranakan (Straits-born Chinese) woman. In 1819, at age 21, Tan left Malacca and came to Singapore.6 The enterprising young man started out as a vegetable seller, bringing produce from the countryside to sell in the city. By 1827, he had saved up enough money to open a shop along the riverside at Boat Quay.7 Businessman Through a joint business venture in land speculation with J. H. Whitehead of Shaw, Whitehead & Co., Tan became a wealthy businessman.8 His landed properties included 50 acres of land where the railway station at Tanjong Pagar was located, and tracts of land stretching from the Padang all the way to High Street and Tank Road.9 He also owned a block of shophouses at Ellenborough Building and a 14-acre fruit plantation opposite the St Andrew’s Mission Hospital.10 Philanthropist Tan made generous contributions to charity.11 He was known to take care of burial expenses for destitute Chinese.12 His most famous philanthropic gesture was the donation of $5,000 towards the building of the Chinese Pauper Hospital (later renamed Tan Tock Seng Hospital) in 1844 at Pearl’s Hill. The building was designed by government surveyor J. T. Thomson. Although it was completed at the end of 1846, the building was operated as a hospital only from 1849 onwards, as the government had used it as a temporary convict jail.13 Tan also founded the Thian Hock Keng Temple at Telok Ayer Street, Singapore’s oldest temple and the centre of worship for the Hokkien community.14 Tan was the first Asian to be made Justice of the Peace by then Governor William J. Butterworth.15 His role in helping the early Chinese immigrants settle disputes earned him the title “Captain of the Chinese”.16 After a short illness, Tan died at age 52 on 24 February 1850.17 His original burial site was unknown, but his remains were later exhumed and interred at Outram Road.18 His daughter-in-law, Chua Seah Neo, and granddaughter-in-law, Wuing Neo, were also buried there.19 In 1969, his grave was under threat of demolition during road widening work, and his descendants intervened.20 After his tomb was found to be neglected in 1989, descendants of Tan Tock Seng set up a trust fund to finance the ongoing repairs and maintenance of their family graves.21"
Paragraph,"Family Father: Tan Whay Teck.22 Brother: Three brothers, of which the eldest was Oo Long. As for the other two, the older went to China and the younger probably died.23 Wife: Lee Seo Neo, who was also generous in her support of the Tan Tock Seng Hospital and paid for a women’s ward built in 1867.24 Sons: Three sons, Tan Kim Ching (also spelled Tan Kim Cheng), Tan Swee Lim and Tan Teck Guan. Kim Ching, the eldest, was also a philanthropist and continued with his financial support for the development of Tan Tock Seng Hospital.25 Daughters: Three. One daughter was married to Lee Cheng Tee, shipowner and chief partner of Cheng-tee Watt Seng and Company.26Author Jenny TienReferences 1. Kamala Devi Dhoraisingham and Dhoraisingham S. Samuel, Tan Tock Seng: Pioneer: His Life, Times, Contributions and Legacy (Kota Kinabalu: Natural History Publications (Borneo), 2003), 27 (Call no. RSING 338.04092 KAM); “Domestic Occurrence Death,” Straits Times, 26 February 1850, 4. (From NewspaperSG) 2. K. Mulliner and Lian The-Mulliner, Historical Dictionary of Singapore (Metuchen, NJ.: Scarecrow Press, 1991), 149. (Call no. RSING 959.57003 MUL-[HIS]) 3. David Brazil, Street Smart: Singapore (Singapore: Times Books International, 1991), 214. (Call no. RSING 959.57 BRA-[HIS]) 4. Dhoraisingham and Samuel, Tan Tock Seng, 27; Singapore Days of Old (Hong Kong: Illustrated Magazine, 1992), 51. (Call no. RSING 959.57 SIN-[HIS]) 5. Dhoraisingham and Samuel, Tan Tock Seng, 34–35.6. Dhoraisingham and Samuel, Tan Tock Seng, 1–2; “Founder’s Note,” Tan Tock Seng Hospital, last updated 7 October 2021.7. Singapore Days of Old, 51; Brazil, Street Smart, 214.8. Mulliner and The-Mulliner, Historical Dictionary of Singapore, 149.9. Dhoraisingham and Samuel, Tan Tock Seng, 27; Singapore Days of Old, 51.10. Dhoraisingham and Samuel, Tan Tock Seng, 27; Singapore Days of Old, 51.11. Dhoraisingham and Samuel, Tan Tock Seng, 24.12. Dhoraisingham and Samuel, Tan Tock Seng, 24, 27; Singapore Days of Old, 51.13. “When Lepers Roamed Singapore Streets,” Straits Times, 5 May 1956, 9. (From NewspaperSG); Dhoraisingham and Samuel, Tan Tock Seng, 34–35, 42.14. Dhoraisingham and Samuel, Tan Tock Seng, 43, 45; Singapore Days of Old, 51.15. Dhoraisingham and Samuel, Tan Tock Seng, 27; Singapore Days of Old, 51.16. Singapore Days of Old, 51.17. “Domestic Occurrence Death”; “Died,” Singapore Free Press and Mercantile Advertiser, 1 March 1850, 2. (From NewspaperSG)18. Singapore. National Heritage Board, Tiong Bahru: Heritage Trail (Singapore: National Heritage Board, 2013), 19. (Call no. RSING 915.95704 TIO)19. Debra Ann Francisco, “Hidden Secrets in Little Bohemia,” Straits Times, 4 April 2015, 22. (From NewspaperSG)20. Ow We Mei, “Historic Grave in Danger of Demolition,” Straits Times, 22 April 1969, 7. (From NewspaperSG)21. B. W. Koh, “Neglected Pioneer's Tomb Could Be Made a National Monument,” Straits Times, 6 March 1989, 22; Lawrence Tan, “Why Tan Tock Seng’s grave Should Be Made a National Monument,” Straits Times, 16 August 2009, 29. (From NewspaperSG)22. Singapore Days of Old, 51.23. Dhoraisingham and Samuel, Tan Tock Seng, 2.24. Dhoraisingham and Samuel, Tan Tock Seng, 57; Lee Siew Hua, 150 Years of Caring: The Legacy of Tan Tock Seng Hospital (Singapore: Tan Tock Seng Hospital, 1994), 14. (Call no. RSING 362.11095957 LEE) 25. Dhoraisingham and Samuel, Tan Tock Seng, 54, 79.26. Dhoraisingham and Samuel, Tan Tock Seng, 54, 79; Singapore Days of Old, 51–52.Further resourcesJamie Ee Wen Wei, “Tan Tock Seng Clan's Grave Undertaking,” Straits Times, 2 August 2009, 14. (From NewspaperSG)"
Paragraph,"Lawrence Tan, “Why Tan Tock Seng’s grave Should Be Made a National Monument,” Straits Times, 16 August 2009, 29. (From NewspaperSG)"
Paragraph,"Lim Phay-Ling, “Singapore’s First Heroes,” Straits Times, 6 November 1983, 18. (From NewspaperSG) Ow We Mei, “Historic Grave in Danger of Demolition,” Straits Times, 22 April 1969, 7. (From NewspaperSG)"
Paragraph,"Singapore Broadcasting Corporation, Pioneers, Singapore Broadcasting Corporation, 1993, videocassette. (Call no. RAV 959.57 PIO-[HIS])"
Paragraph,"Singapore Free Press, One Hundred Years of Progress: Centenary Number, October 8, 1935 (Singapore: Singapore Free Press, 1935), 6. (Call no. RRARE 959.59 SIN; microfilm NL3615)"
Paragraph,"Song Ong Siang, One Hundred Years' history of the Chinese in Singapore (Singapore: Oxford University Press, 1984), 61, 66. (Call no. RSING 959.57 SON-[HIS])Sue-Ann Chia, “From Pauper to Philanthropist: The Tock Seng Story,” BiblioAsia (Jan–Mar 2017). Tan Tock Seng Hospital, Tan Tock Seng Hospital: A Distinguished Past, a Vision for the Future (Singapore: Tan Tock Seng Hospital, 2000). (Call no. RSING 362.11095957 TAN) Y. L. Low, “Founding Father,” Singapore Tatler (April–September 1990): 138–141. (Call no. RSING 959.57 ST)The information in this article is valid as at 2008 and correct as far as we can ascertain from our sources. It is not intended to be an exhaustive or complete history of the subject. Please contact the library for further reading materials on the topic."
Paragraph,
Paragraph,
Paragraph,"The information on this page and any images that appear here may be used for private research and study purposes only. They may not be copied, altered or amended in any way without first gaining the permission of the copyright holder."
